https://www.reddit.com/r/HyperV/comments/pewr26/how_can_i_run_proxmox_on_hyper_v/?rdt=49848

Sorry to post on an old thread but today I had to stand up a virtual instance of my physical Proxmox VE 7.3-4 host in an emergency to get it back up and running while I fix the host's hardware (homelab with no host clustering), and this was one of the first threads I found. I'm posting what I did to get it working in the interest of posting a complete solution here for others to use.

Hyper-V machine is Windows 11 Pro version 23H2

Step 1
Attach the physical disk from the Proxmox host to the Hyper-V system. I did this with a known-reliable USB 3.x dock/enclosure and have had no issues so far as of this writing (going about 2-1/2 hours now).

Step 2
Open Disk Manager and take the physical Proxmox disk offline. This will allow you to attach it as a SCSI device to the new (temporary for me) host VM.

Step 3
Create a new VM with appropriate configurations for cores/RAM/etc. My physical deployment used UEFI so I set my VM to use Generation 2.

Give it a simple name with no spaces - this will be used in PowerShell in Step 6, though strictly speaking I'm not sure it's fully necessary but I took no chances.

If you're like me and setting up a temporary VM from a physical Proxmox drive, skip creating a virtual disk during the setup process. If you're standing it up fresh and intend on running Proxmox off a new virtual disk, configure the sizing accordingly.

Step 4
With the VM created, we need to make some additional changes before starting. Open the Virtual Switch Manager (in the Actions pane on the right-hand side of the Hyper-V Manager), and create a new External virtual switch. Connect the switch to the NIC you intend on using for your VM traffic.

Step 5
Next, open the settings for your VM. Set:

Firmware: Boot from Hard Drive

Security: Secure Boot Disabled

SCSI Controller: Make sure your drive, physical or virtual, is attached here. If physical and you did step 2 correctly, your drive will be available to select.

Network Adapter: Set to use your new External virtual switch, AND, expand the menu for your network adapter, then in the Advanced Features section make sure Enable MAC address spoofing is checked.

Integration Services: Check everything off here

Checkpoints: I had to disable this to get the VM to boot - YMMV.

Step 6
Open a PowerShell console as Administrator and run:

Set-VMProcessor -VMName [vm-name-here] -ExposeVirtualizationExtensions $true

Step 7
Start the Proxmox VM (and install Proxmox VE if that's what you're after; if you're doing what I did, your existing deployment should fire up). Once it is running, install the Hyper-V daemons inside Proxmox and reboot:

apt-get update && apt-get install hyperv-daemons
systemctl reboot

Step 8
Enjoy Proxmox VE nested inside Hyper-V. At this point in my project, all my original VMs and containers spun right up without hesitation, getting me back up and running for the time being.

Hope this is helpful for anyone stumbling on this down the road like I did.
